Client/Server communication involves two components, namely a client and a server. 
They are usually multiple clients in communication with a single server. 
The clients send requests to the server and the server responds to the client requests.

API: Programming Interfaces enable software to interact with other software through exposed functionality.

Client: The client is the initiating party that sends an API request. 
    Often times there will be many clients consuming the same API.

Server: The server is software or hardware that provides a service by responding to requests across a network.

HTTP is a protocol for fetching resources such as HTML documents. 
It is the foundation of any data exchange on the Web and it is a client-server protocol, which means requests are initiated by the recipient, usually the Web browser. 
A complete document is reconstructed from the different sub-documents fetched, for instance, text, layout description, images, videos, scripts, and more.

https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Overview/fetching_a_page.png


Main points
    1. Client-server communication Model
    2. The HTTP (Hypertext Transfer Protocol) is a communication protocol
    3. Markup Languages

# HTTP & Client-Server Communication
    Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is the protocol that web browsers and web servers use "under the hood" to communicate with each other over the Internet. 
    It is text based. HTTP is a protocol which allows the fetching of resources, such as HTML documents. 
    After the request is serviced by a server, the connection between client and server across the Internet is disconnected. 
    A new connection must be made for each request. Most protocols are connection oriented, where the connection is kept open over the Internet. 
    HTTP does not however. Before an HTTP request can be made by a client, a new connection must be made to the server.

    Clients and servers communicate by exchanging individual messages (as opposed to a stream of data). 
    The messages sent by the client, usually a Web browser, are called requests and the messages sent by the server as an answer are called responses. 
    A request is made by an entity called a user-agent, which is typically a web browser however can be a bot or scraper. ]
    The server answer with a response. In between can be any number of proxies or caches that can act as gateways.

    HTTP is stateless, which means inherently data isn’t saved. HTTP cookies allow use of stateful sessions. 
    This might be used for example with an e-commerce website as you click from page to page.


HTTP Request
Requests consists of the following elements1:

    1. An HTTP method, usually a verb like GET, POST or a noun like OPTIONS or HEAD that defines the operation the client wants to perform. 
        Typically, a client wants to fetch a resource (using GET) or post the value of an HTML form (using POST), though more operations may be needed in other cases.
    2. The path of the resource to fetch; the URL of the resource stripped from elements that are obvious from the context, 
        for example without the protocol (http://), the domain (here, developer.mozilla.org), or the TCP port (here, 80).
    3. The version of the HTTP protocol.
    4. Optional headers that convey additional information for the servers.
    5. Or a body, for some methods like POST, similar to those in responses, which contain the resource sent.



HTTP Response
Responses consist of the following elements:

    1. The version of the HTTP protocol they follow.
    2. A status code, indicating if the request was successful, or not, and why.
    3. A status message, a non-authoritative short description of the status code.
    4. HTTP headers, like those for requests.
    5. Optionally, a body containing the fetched resource.
