What is Node.js?
1) Node.js is an open source, cross-platform runtime environment for developing server-side and 
    networking applications. 
2) Node.js was developed by Ryan Dahl in 2009 and its latest version is v0.10.36.
3) Node.js also provides a rich library of various JavaScript modules which simplifies the development of 
    web applications using Node.js to a great extent.
    ***                                                   ****
       Node.js = Runtime Environment + JavaScript Library




Features of Node.js
Following are some of the important features that make Node.js the first choice of software architects.

1) Asynchronous and Event Driven − All APIs of Node.js library are asynchronous, that is, non-blocking. 
    It essentially means a Node.js based server never waits for an API to return data. The server moves to the 
    next API after calling it and a notification mechanism of Events of Node.js helps the server to get a 
    response from the previous API call.

2) Very Fast − Being built on Google Chrome's V8 JavaScript Engine, Node.js library is very fast in code execution.

3)Single Threaded but Highly Scalable − Node.js uses a single threaded model with event looping. 
    Event mechanism helps the server to respond in a non-blocking way and makes the server highly scalable 
    as opposed to traditional servers which create limited threads to handle requests. Node.js uses a single 
    threaded program and the same program can provide service to a much larger number of requests than 
    traditional servers like Apache HTTP Server.

4) No Buffering − Node.js applications never buffer any data. These applications simply output the data in chunks.

5) License − Node.js is released under the MIT license.



Who Uses Node.js?
Following is the link on github wiki containing an exhaustive list of projects, application and companies which 
are using Node.js. This list includes eBay, General Electric, GoDaddy, Microsoft, PayPal, Uber, Wikipins, Yahoo!, 
and Yammer to name a few.



*NVM is a node.js version manager. It provides easy installation, switching between versions and 
retains globally installed packages for each version. 
*NPM is a package manager, which help you install libraries, plugins, frameworks and applications.